docs/getting-started/index.md, before:

---
icon: lucide/rocket
---

# Getting Started

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **Git** — available in your PATH
- **tmux** — required for session management and status monitoring

### Install

Download the latest binary from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/colonyops/hive/releases) and place it on your PATH:

```bash
# macOS (Apple Silicon)
curl -L https://github.com/colonyops/hive/releases/latest/download/hive_darwin_arm64 -o /usr/local/bin/hive
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/hive

# macOS (Intel)
curl -L https://github.com/colonyops/hive/releases/latest/download/hive_darwin_amd64 -o /usr/local/bin/hive
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/hive

# Linux (amd64)
curl -L https://github.com/colonyops/hive/releases/latest/download/hive_linux_amd64 -o /usr/local/bin/hive
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/hive
```

### Verify

```bash
hive --version
hive doctor        # Check configuration and environment
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Set up a shell alias

Hive works best when running inside tmux. When you create a session, hive spawns a tmux session for the agent — if hive itself is also a tmux session, you can seamlessly switch between hive and your agents without leaving tmux. Hive becomes your home base: open an agent, do some work, jump back to hive, spin up another.

Add to your `.bashrc` / `.zshrc`:

```bash
alias hv='tmux new-session -As hive hive'
```

This runs hive inside a dedicated tmux session called `hive`. If the session already exists, it reattaches.

### 2. Add a tmux keybinding to jump back

Add to your `~/.tmux.conf`:

```tmux
bind l switch-client -t hive
```

Now `<prefix> l` returns you to hive from any agent session.

### 3. Configure repo directories (optional)

To create sessions from the TUI with `n`, tell hive where your repos live:

```yaml
# ~/.config/hive/config.yaml
repo_dirs:
  - ~/projects
  - ~/work
```

Without this, you can still create sessions from the CLI:

```bash
cd ~/projects/my-app
hive new Fix Auth Bug
```

### 4. Launch

```bash
hv
```

Hive auto-detects tmux, bundles its own session management scripts, and registers default keybindings — no other config needed. Press `n` to create sessions, `enter` to open them, and `:` for the command palette.

## Dependencies

- Git (available in PATH or configured via `git_path`)
- tmux (required — provides session management and status monitoring)

## Next Steps

- [Sessions](sessions.md) — How sessions, agents, and lifecycle work
- [Context](context.md) — Shared storage and the review tool
- [Messaging](messaging.md) — Inter-agent pub/sub communication

Commit message:

docs: add admonitions, code copy button, and align deploy workflow
- Enable admonition, details, and superfences markdown extensions
- Add admonitions across all docs pages (warnings, tips, info, notes)
- Enable content.code.copy for copy buttons on code blocks
- Align docs deploy job with zensical recommended workflow
  (configure-pages, upload-pages-artifact, deploy-pages)

docs/getting-started/index.md, after:

---
icon: lucide/rocket
---

# Getting Started

Install hive, configure your environment, and launch your first AI agent session in under five minutes.

## Installation

### Prerequisites

- **Git** — available in your PATH
- **tmux** — required for session management and status monitoring

!!! note "tmux is required"
    Hive uses tmux for session management, agent monitoring, and preview panes. Install it before proceeding — hive will not function without it.

### Install

Download the latest binary from [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/colonyops/hive/releases) and place it on your PATH:

```bash
# macOS (Apple Silicon)
curl -L https://github.com/colonyops/hive/releases/latest/download/hive_darwin_arm64 -o /usr/local/bin/hive
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/hive

# macOS (Intel)
curl -L https://github.com/colonyops/hive/releases/latest/download/hive_darwin_amd64 -o /usr/local/bin/hive
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/hive

# Linux (amd64)
curl -L https://github.com/colonyops/hive/releases/latest/download/hive_linux_amd64 -o /usr/local/bin/hive
chmod +x /usr/local/bin/hive
```

### Verify

```bash
hive --version
hive doctor        # Check configuration and environment
```

## Quick Start

### 1. Set up a shell alias

Hive works best when running inside tmux. When you create a session, hive spawns a tmux session for the agent — if hive itself is also a tmux session, you can seamlessly switch between hive and your agents without leaving tmux. Hive becomes your home base: open an agent, do some work, jump back to hive, spin up another.

!!! tip "Recommended alias"
    Add to your `.bashrc` / `.zshrc`:

    ```bash
    alias hv='tmux new-session -As hive hive'
    ```

    This runs hive inside a dedicated tmux session called `hive`. If the session already exists, it reattaches.

### 2. Add a tmux keybinding to jump back

Add to your `~/.tmux.conf`:

```tmux
bind l switch-client -t hive
```

Now `<prefix> l` returns you to hive from any agent session.

### 3. Configure repo directories (optional)

To create sessions from the TUI with `n`, tell hive where your repos live:

```yaml
# ~/.config/hive/config.yaml
repo_dirs:
  - ~/projects
  - ~/work
```

!!! info
    Without `repo_dirs`, you can still create sessions from the CLI by running `hive new` from within a git repository:

    ```bash
    cd ~/projects/my-app
    hive new Fix Auth Bug
    ```

### 4. Launch

```bash
hv
```

Hive auto-detects tmux, bundles its own session management scripts, and registers default keybindings — no other config needed. Press `n` to create sessions, `enter` to open them, and `:` for the command palette.

## Dependencies

- Git (available in PATH or configured via `git_path`)
- tmux (required — provides session management and status monitoring)

## Next Steps

- [Sessions](sessions.md) — How sessions, agents, and lifecycle work
- [Context](context.md) — Shared storage and the review tool
- [Messaging](messaging.md) — Inter-agent pub/sub communication
