docs/getting-started/messaging.md, before:

# Inter-Agent Messaging

Hive includes a lightweight pub/sub messaging system that enables agents to communicate across repositories. This is useful when work in one microservice depends on information from another.

## Inbox Convention

Each hive session has a conventional inbox topic using the format `agent.{session-id}.inbox`. This convention makes it easy for agents to find each other's inboxes and send direct messages.

**Example**:

- Session ID: `26kj0c`
- Inbox topic: `agent.26kj0c.inbox`

You can find your current session ID and inbox with:

```bash
hive session info
```

**Note**: The `agent.` prefix refers to the AI agent running in the session, not the session itself. In the future when hive supports multiple agents per session, inbox addressing will use `agent.<session-id>.<agent-name>.inbox`.

## Example: Cross-Repository Collaboration

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant A as Agent A<br/>(auth-service)
    participant Bus as Message Bus<br/>topic: agent.x7k2
    participant B as Agent B<br/>(user-service)

    Note over A: Working on auth flow,<br/>needs User struct format

    A->>Bus: pub "What fields are in the User struct?"
    Bus-->>B: sub --wait receives message

    Note over B: Reads user/model.go

    B->>Bus: pub "User{ID, Email, Name, CreatedAt}"
    Bus-->>A: sub --last 1 receives response

    Note over A: Continues implementation<br/>with correct struct
```

This example is simple, but I've used this system at work to debug complex issues across several microservices, pinpointing a bug in a service I didn't own.

## Messaging Commands

```bash
# Generate a unique topic for collaboration
hive msg topic                    # outputs: agent.x7k2

# Agent A publishes a question
hive msg pub -t agent.x7k2 "What fields are in the User struct?"

# Agent B subscribes and waits for messages
hive msg sub -t agent.x7k2 --wait

# Agent B responds
hive msg pub -t agent.x7k2 "User struct has: ID, Email, Name, CreatedAt"

# Agent A receives the response
hive msg sub -t agent.x7k2 --last 1
```

## CLI Reference

Run `hive msg --help` for all flags and options.

Commit message:

docs: update multi-agent support, restructure config pages, add nav icons
- Update sessions/faq/messaging to reflect multi-agent per session support
- Replace mermaid lifecycle diagram with text workflow
- Add agent profiles documentation to configuration
- Fix outdated defaults (poll_interval, preview_window_matcher)
- Update data storage from sessions.json to hive.db
- Add missing default keybindings (R, J, K)
- Restructure config subpages: title, explainer, code example, then details
- Simplify config index by breaking options into focused sections
- Add Lucide/FontAwesome icons to all page frontmatter for nav sidebar

docs/getting-started/messaging.md, after:

---
icon: lucide/mail
---

# Inter-Agent Messaging

Hive includes a lightweight pub/sub messaging system that enables agents to communicate across repositories. This is useful when work in one microservice depends on information from another.

## Inbox Convention

Each hive session has a conventional inbox topic using the format `agent.{session-id}.inbox`. This convention makes it easy for agents to find each other's inboxes and send direct messages.

**Example**:

- Session ID: `26kj0c`
- Inbox topic: `agent.26kj0c.inbox`

You can find your current session ID and inbox with:

```bash
hive session info
```

**Note**: The `agent.` prefix refers to the AI agent running in the session, not the session itself. Sessions with multiple agents currently share a single inbox. Per-agent addressing (`agent.<session-id>.<agent-name>.inbox`) is reserved for future use.

## Example: Cross-Repository Collaboration

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant A as Agent A<br/>(auth-service)
    participant Bus as Message Bus<br/>topic: agent.x7k2
    participant B as Agent B<br/>(user-service)

    Note over A: Working on auth flow,<br/>needs User struct format

    A->>Bus: pub "What fields are in the User struct?"
    Bus-->>B: sub --wait receives message

    Note over B: Reads user/model.go

    B->>Bus: pub "User{ID, Email, Name, CreatedAt}"
    Bus-->>A: sub --last 1 receives response

    Note over A: Continues implementation<br/>with correct struct
```

This example is simple, but I've used this system at work to debug complex issues across several microservices, pinpointing a bug in a service I didn't own.

## Messaging Commands

```bash
# Generate a unique topic for collaboration
hive msg topic                    # outputs: agent.x7k2

# Agent A publishes a question
hive msg pub -t agent.x7k2 "What fields are in the User struct?"

# Agent B subscribes and waits for messages
hive msg sub -t agent.x7k2 --wait

# Agent B responds
hive msg pub -t agent.x7k2 "User struct has: ID, Email, Name, CreatedAt"

# Agent A receives the response
hive msg sub -t agent.x7k2 --last 1
```

## CLI Reference

Run `hive msg --help` for all flags and options.
