docs/faq.md, before:

# FAQ

### What's the difference between a hive session and a tmux session?

- **Hive session**: A git clone + terminal environment managed by hive
- **Tmux session**: A terminal multiplexer session that hosts the hive session

When you create a hive session with tmux integration, hive spawns a tmux session with the same name. The relationship is:

```
Hive Session "fix-bug" (ID: abc123)
  ↓ creates
Tmux Session "fix-bug"
  ↓ contains
Agent (Claude) running in tmux window
```

See [Getting Started](getting-started.md) for full terminology.

### Can I run multiple agents in one session?

Not yet, but it's planned. Currently each session runs one agent. Future versions will support multiple agents per session (e.g., Claude + test runner).

When multi-agent support is added, agents will have individual inboxes:

- `agent.<session-id>.claude.inbox`
- `agent.<session-id>.test-runner.inbox`

### Why is the inbox format `agent.<id>.inbox` not `session.<id>.inbox`?

The inbox belongs to the agent (AI tool), not the session (container). When multi-agent support is added, you'll be able to send messages to specific agents within a session using `agent.<session-id>.<agent-name>.inbox`.

See [Messaging](messaging.md) for full details on inter-agent communication.

### What's a "recycled" session?

When you're done with a session, you can recycle it instead of deleting it. Recycling:

1. Resets the git repository to a clean state
2. Renames the directory to a recycled pattern
3. Makes it available for reuse

When you create a new session, hive will reuse a recycled session if available, avoiding a fresh clone and saving time.

Commit message:

docs: update multi-agent support, restructure config pages, add nav icons
- Update sessions/faq/messaging to reflect multi-agent per session support
- Replace mermaid lifecycle diagram with text workflow
- Add agent profiles documentation to configuration
- Fix outdated defaults (poll_interval, preview_window_matcher)
- Update data storage from sessions.json to hive.db
- Add missing default keybindings (R, J, K)
- Restructure config subpages: title, explainer, code example, then details
- Simplify config index by breaking options into focused sections
- Add Lucide/FontAwesome icons to all page frontmatter for nav sidebar

docs/faq.md, after:

---
icon: lucide/circle-help
---

# FAQ

### What's the difference between a hive session and a tmux session?

- **Hive session**: A git clone + terminal environment managed by hive
- **Tmux session**: A terminal multiplexer session that hosts the hive session

When you create a hive session with tmux integration, hive spawns a tmux session with the same name. The relationship is:

```
Hive Session "fix-bug" (ID: abc123)
  ↓ creates
Tmux Session "fix-bug"
  ↓ contains
Agent (Claude) running in tmux window
```

See [Getting Started](getting-started.md) for full terminology.

### Can I run multiple agents in one session?

Yes. Each agent runs in its own tmux window within the session. Configure [agent profiles](configuration/index.md#agents) to define which tools are available, and use `tmux.preview_window_matcher` to tell hive which windows to monitor. The TUI tracks each agent window independently with its own status indicator.

### Why is the inbox format `agent.<id>.inbox` not `session.<id>.inbox`?

The inbox belongs to the agent (AI tool), not the session (container). The `agent.` prefix supports future per-agent addressing using `agent.<session-id>.<agent-name>.inbox`.

See [Messaging](messaging.md) for full details on inter-agent communication.

### What's a "recycled" session?

When you're done with a session, you can recycle it instead of deleting it. Recycling:

1. Resets the git repository to a clean state
2. Renames the directory to a recycled pattern
3. Makes it available for reuse

When you create a new session, hive will reuse a recycled session if available, avoiding a fresh clone and saving time.
